---
title: Fabric Blog Review - 4 ways to ingest MS SQL data into Fabric
published: 2024-11-18T14:00:00.000Z
description: >-
  Fabric Developer reviews a blog post by Liliam C Leme: SQL to Microsoft Fabric Migration: Beginner-Friendly Strategies for a Smooth Transition. While we felt the post is more about data ingestion than data migration, it is a good summary of 
tags:
  - Fabric
  - Article Review
  - Data Migration
  - Data Ingestion
  - SQL
category: Fabric
image: "./cover.png"
draft: false
---
# Blog Review - 4 ways to ingest MS SQL data into Fabric
This blog post summarizes a video review of a Microsoft blog post that explores 4 methods for ingesting data from Microsoft SQL Server (MS SQL) into Microsoft Fabric.

<iframe width="100%" height="468" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/olAX8GPxD-s" title="Fabric Blog Review: 4 ways to ingest MS SQL data into Fabric" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Fabric: A Unified Data Platform

Microsoft Fabric is a comprehensive data analytics platform that integrates various services like Power BI, Data Factory, Data Engineering, Data Science, and Real-Time Intelligence into a single system. This platform simplifies the data workflow by offering functionalities for data movement, processing, ingestion, and transformation.

## Why Move Data from MS SQL to Fabric?

Organizations within the Microsoft ecosystem might be using both SQL Server workloads and Azure SQL workloads. Fabric offers a centralized location for data analysis, making it easier to combine data from various sources for better insights.

## 4 Methods for Ingesting MS SQL Data into Fabric
Original blog post by Liliam C Leme:
[SQL to Microsoft Fabric Migration: Beginner-Friendly Strategies for a Smooth Transition](https://blog.fabric.microsoft.com/en-GB/blog/sql-to-microsoft-fabric-migration-beginner-friendly-strategies-for-a-smooth-transition/)

#### Notebook and Pipeline
This are the tools that many data engineers are most familiar with. The benefit of notebook is allowing the developers to check intrim results during development.

Pipeline support scheduling and many different ETL methods including notebooks and various activities.

#### CETAS
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE AS SELECT (CETAS) is a less common method of making data available in Fabric. It behaves as a PUSH method. This suits some scenarios when some ETL/ELT operations occurs in source and then the data can be "pushed" into Fabric. This can be more efficient compare to the pull, as it has more awareness over data readiness in source system.

It will push physical data into Fabric storage in the format of parquet (recommended), delimited text, Delta table etc. Metadata will also be created allowing the table to be queried directly from Fabric.

#### CDC Streaming
We were planning to cover this as part of the web traffic analytics via real time Eventhub method. Dave just need to setup Plausible via the self-hosted option.

#### Mirroring
Mirroing is only available for Azure SQL, but it's really amazing as we've covered it in this post [Mirroring and Shortcuts in Fabric](https://fabricdeveloper.com/posts/mirroring-and-shortcuts-in-fabric/mirroring-and-shortcuts-in-fabric/).

## Note
Part of the contents are generated by Google Gemini using transcript of our  YouTube video.